Notes from the general assembly of Occupy Midwest March 17th

Process Mover - Chad KC

Agenda - Brooke STL

Time - Kat STL

Stack - Roman KC

Notes - Frank Tulsa

GA INITIATED 5:09PM

Hello everybody welcome to the 3rd OMW GA

Short introductions

Do you guys want to come down from upstairs? In order to see your signals it would be helpful if you came down.

Hand Signals and consensus process recap

***************

SInce these proposals have already been discussed we are going to do a straight vote on them.
These are from the proposals presented thurs at the first GA, the proposals presented
would be voted on saturday
 WIth procedure the only way 

 Not only will I second my comrades discussing together, I have aquestion about the voting. These signals are using
 consensus, but my understanding this is a 90% vote, requiring yays nays and things of that nature rather than uptwinkle.

 We do operate on 90% consensus, can we get a temp check on upvoting and downvoting. 
 We will follow the process by addressing the anys, using the uptwinkles as a signal.

 I want to go over the proposals again because there are people who were not here on Thurs?

 Point of intformation there are several people who were not here the first day. I would be in favor
 of some discussion, but we have to be done by 6PM.

 clarification:

 I drop my proposal tongiht, I thought it would be going on tomorrow night? 

 Your proposal would be done after this, first and foremost we want to address proposals form thurs. Any more points of information?

 Given the time constraints we should move this or adjust this?

 Would we be in favor of continuing the GA after the speaker.

 Would it be easier if we did the voting session first and new proposals after this GA? Another GA after this event so we
 have the proper time for all the proposals and this proposal.

 Block: I dont want to soapbox, I think there are several people who have a problem with the GA in a bar. I think that this is more important than the speaker. 

 Clar: not to harp on the negative, I am a recovering alcoholic and we are drinking in a bar. Anyone 21 and under we are excluding, we are silencing the voices of people with children who have come here from far away. not trying to harp on negative, but we are excluding and we need
 to recognize that when we have a GA in a bar. Some of my people where I am from are blocking it very strongly, because one of our principles is that we dont want to be associated with alcohol.

 First off I heard that these proposals were put ont he table thurs, I have not had time to discuss with anyone, alot of people are not
 here because of work. There are a myriad of reasons why we should reread?

 Question: can we move the speaker back so we can have a full GA?

 Temp check shows looks good for moving speaker, no blocks, no downtwinkles. 

 Can the organizer of occupy STL give us some assistance? Would they be able to move the schedule.

 Just so everyone knows as someone from STL I am neutral, this is a OMW event, whatever you guys want to do? I have been told
 she knows we are running late, so if we move forward we will be alright.

 Is everybody good with rpesenting each proposal in a timely manner, with a few minutes for each proposal. To keep thins running can I get a temp check?

 Temp check shows pretty good.

 I dont think 2 min is long enough?

 I think if we give 2 min for the stack line, everyone can speak in the stack line, then we go through the stack?

 5 minutes for each proposal, 2 min for stack, and cutoff for stack. Temp check shows cool with that.

 First proposal is on judicial hearing questioning the constitutionality of military. 

 If the presenter is not here. this is tabled until tomorrows GA? TEMP CHECK CONSENSUS.

 Next proposal. I would like the body to agree that corporations are not people and money is not speech, they are not here. Tabled.

 Occupy wants the next Occupy in August at Chicago?

2nd presenter is here. CORPS ARE NOT PEOPLE, MONEY IS NOT SPEECH.

Question: Is this just something we are affirming as a GA?

I think we are getting at working with Move to Amend, getting petitions signed to get this changed, you know about the Citizens United decision that allows the corps to spend as much money as they want. We need to get all the signatures we can on move to amend, eveyrone needs to get involved with this movement and get corps out of our government.

Occupy is in support of move to amend and corporations are not people. They shouldnt spend as much money as they want.

Question: Are we saying as a GA we support, or are we going along with move to amend?

We are just saying corporations are not people.

Passes a temp check. 

The next proposal, there should be no for-profit hospitals, schools, prisons, no military contractors. Is the presenter here? Yes.

I think it is pretty clear. The point is, if money goes to for profit schools, it is being taken away from other public schools, and the CEOS
are making billions of dollars that are being siphoned away. I am against for-profit healthcare. With the 30% we spend on profits, we could cover
everyone in this country. I am against for profit prisons, because the profit motive is keeping people in prison, because the profit motive is keeping people in prison. I am against for-profit juveinnile facilities, because we dont want to keep them in these facilities.

I am against for profit private military contractors, the pentagon right now has no idea where the money is going, billions and billions. This money is being wasted and sent into CEO pockets.

So I think that we need to hit the insurance industry rather than for-profit healthcare in general.

Is this similar to the last proposal? As an official stance for the OMW?

Is there no possibility for a friendly amendment, then this conversation doesn't matter.

We are talking privatization in general here? I'd like to add private power generation?

We decided to take the proposals as is, without any friendly amendments.

So are we against private schools? No just against for-profit.

POC: what do you mean military contractor.

Any other points of clarification?

There are a few nays in the audience, but it still passes 90% consensus.

Next PROPOSAL
A week long street festival. Occupy the Midwest, occupy the hearts of the 99%.

We are here tp propose something we have been working on alot in Cleveland, its a significant thing, the most
grassroots action we have been a part of. We are done with the anger, we need to show some humility. From these
2 guys in a tent. We came to get an endorsement from the OMW.

I just want to add there is going to be a huge street fair and music festival. We just want some education and 
some speakers, with DA. We ask OMW to endorse Occupy the heart fest, to announce and invite at the local GAs.

POC: So if we vote on this and say yes, does that mean we are obligated to go back to our Occupies?

No. we ask to bring it up to the GAs, we are asking to endorse this.

Where is it? And are we going to get the information by tomorrow from you?

As part of the proposal, we would be reaching out to the OMW assembly. In Cleveland, Ohio.

I with occupy cleveland, I announced this yesterday at the GA, the first few days will be a family friendly thing with food
not bomb, asking local businesses to bring a booth, its up to people tp organize and plan events. We can do whatever we want.

Can we move to a vote to endorse what they are doing.

Passes temperature check.

NEXT PROPOSAL

One of the most important issues of all time is coming to a climax once more, we have this issue that is rapidly escalating. I ask
that we as a body endorse that statement. TEMP CHECK SUCCESSFUL.

Please respect the one voice so that eveyrone can hear.

NEXT PROPOSAL

Take the streets with every march.

Proposal withdrawn from presenter.

NEXT PROPOSAL

Susie from Occupy Minnesota. Wants to look for abandoned land to build coops and concrete improvements, replace the pillars of the 1%. I propose we occupy abandoned buildings to create gardens, coops, schools. We want to determine the level needs and work on that. we can create a facebook page to figure out the failures/

I am wondering if we can legally squat in them?

It is up to each organization to determine whta the regulations are.

We are not accepting friendly amendments.

What are we going to do if the buildings fall down and people are hurt. That would be up to each working group to determine how to handle that.

Susie from St. Louis.

I would like to emphasize the vacant lots.

It has already been clarified we are not saying go illegal, we just want to allow each group to individually determine.

Is it explicitly abandoned, or just foreclosed properties.

The language says abandoned.

You said you would ask the community what the needs assessment are. Are you just counting or are you going to do interviews?

Up to each individual working group.

OMW to endorse to see if this can be implemented in your specific city.

BLOCK

I cannot endorse using facebook.

I dont understand how blocks operate on 90% basis.

They don't.

6 Nays, it still passes.

Hello from Occupy Chicago, American Spring May 12-15th, People Summit.

What Im going to ask the OMW assembly to endorse for the 10 days of NATO actions. Lots of workshops in OC space. ETC.

On the 19th we have an occupation planned, people power, anti-NATO. against imperialism, against austerity, for democracy.

So what we have been focusing on in Chicago is lionking local issues to these group, I hope that OMW could bring regional issues. Get in touch with us and we hope to see you in May.

Is this the G8 now that it has moved?

It is the people summit, instead of the G8 summit. It's called the Peoples Summit. We need to do more than simply endorse, we want to highlight
with this plan is that there are themes and we hope to have organizing and planning, we need to get out there and highlight how austerity and the war is bad. We should collectively inform about these things.

A sidenote, if we could use the microphone that would really help.

Anyone else?

Goes to a vote, anyone who doesn't like this vote nay.

repeat what you are voting one?

Asking the OMW GA to endorse 10 days of themes. Anyone opposed? It passes. See you in May.

The next part of the agenda.

NEXT PROPOSAL

We begin planning and setting the date in august to have the next OMW GA. Maybe we could bring it back up for a final vote tomorrow for a city to endorse it.

So in order for a city to elect a city, we would have to go the cities GA to propose to host. So we need to figure this out later. 

Quickly while we are talking about where we are going to have the next conference. I heard some people called out detroit. I think that detroits GAs tend to be much larger and more active than GAs from chicago, so I would strongly recommend detroit is an ample place to have the next conference, if anyone knows the situtation I feel that would be an exemplaray place to have the next conference.

Is there anyone else on stack?

If you do vote on that, I dont know if we have the livestream, or vote somewhere else.

I need to understand that we are going ot have 2 conferences a year from now on.

Its just again in August, thats it.

Organizers should be sensative to manage time/place constraints with the RNC and DNC conferences.

THe proposal is we have an OMW GA in August.

To add Detroit , MI would be great.

Q: we will just say we can do this sometime in the future.

TEMP CHECK PASSES

Next on agenda, new proposals. You have 3 minutes to present it and a 2 minute stack.

If you could come line up on the stage..... Doing stuff.

Im chris from Occupy SPringfield. This is a simple proposal, we should sing happy birthday for the 6 month anniversery of OWS.

HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU, HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO US, HAPPY BIRTHDAY DEAR  OCCUPY, HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO US.

Im bill from springfield, Im on the labor working group. I havent heard a lot about labor. In OS we are very active in labor, I would like to propose that all of the individual occupy groups get involved in labor actions. Labor is all inclusive in everything, you are either worker or owner.

At the point people think they are management and they are still workers. The point is to expand the group, we want to be 99% we want to include management. If you are an ower you are anti-worker, and thats just how it is.

It is my belief taht the labor unions have a hieracrhical structure and that the labor movement should join us instead of us joining them.

Organized labor has become fragmented in this country.

Adding on to the proposal, I am not sure what is being said and why.

I think we need to append a little bit, my husband is the owner.

I may run into problems here, with small businesses and whatnot.

POI: We are in opposition to citizens united, we will work to amend. In the spirit of this movement, we should end corporate personhood, since that same kind of money helps unions and you are hurting them by cutting that money off, so we should express our concern.

Point of process, stack is closed.

I just want to say that all of us are aware that we have labor committees, I just wanted to say that the sentiment to worry about unions is wrong, maybe it is the job of labor committtees, althought I do see the importance of making this proposal.

Im justin from Occupy Tulsa. I just wanted everyone to know that Obama is coming to cushing, he is in OK to cheer on the completion of Keystone XL. I got into contact with people in 350.org and tar sands action to get a banner. Announcement/proposal if anyone can make it to OK to help protest Obama.

Stack on this issue:

Is this on facebook. I just wanted to give the information for people to be ready. 

This isn't going to change.

The loakota in SD gave them permission to go onto their sovereign property.

I recently discovered there is an acquifer in OK that this goes over. 

We are trying to get the midwest assembly to endorse this action and come out to the action. We just want people to come down.

I just want to add something really quick, as a point of information you are not going to have an easy way to mobilize. You are not going to know
the exact location.

Can we tighted up the facilitation. POI, POC, etc. Stack taker needs.

Im with occupy omaha, for the OMW to endorse May 4th - 6th, going to occupy berkshire. We have about 20k wall street people coming down, and we want to address the fact that money is not speech. We are looking for people to endorse this action. The date is may 4th through the 6th. Its a friday through sunday.

Do you have any shareholders that are on your side.

We are working on that.

Anyone more POI or POC?

Who would we contact if we want more information. I am deshawn cunningham from Occupy Omaha, or Nathan Davis. Occupy omaha website has that inforamtion.

occupyomaha.com

I just dont want them to think we are worthless protesters, the proposal is the way we change how we are doing business. I am in the hispanic community and I cannot get them. There has to be a way to get people involved. Maybe we can be a part or intertwined with other organizations. The proposal is if we are going to contact the senator or mayor, we want go for 3 or 4 things. We need to focus on a single action???

Im just saying the way I see it.

Our speaker is here, we are running 20 minutes late, she has a plane to catch in the morning. Can we stop GA?

You obviously have something you want to write a proposal for, but it is not quite on process. Can someone help him shore up the proposal.

Everyone should team up for proposal specifics.


My name is henry, I have 2 proposals that are very brief. The first one is:

we acknowledge white privilege, we are on occupied land.

we acknowledge white privilege does exist, we need solidarity

2nd

This is important because sunday is coming up. We need to declare solidarity for diversity of tactics.

We have up for vote the Chicago Principles for tactics.

We need to define white privilege.

Are we in favor of allowing him to shore up the clarification of the proposal.

I would like to ask if we could add to this proposal, that we go back and try to get into touch with native american communities,
we need to work with them. Bring this proposal to your individual GAs, 

POI: White straight middle class privilege.

burqueblackcross@gmail.com


Proposal: Grow your own food Occupy Food work groups.

Mike - potatosandmilk@riseup.net

Proposal:

Long term land trusts, get farmers to seal there land and keep that land from being turned over to anything but farm land.

I would like to say the 2 previous proposals could be combined, to uphold our own food and farms and take abandoned land along with your porposal as well.

POC: You want us to make a working group for this?

Upholding a working group for ecological preservationn and a more succincnt process for sustainging a preservation of organic and nonGMA famrs in a land turst,. How that couldcome to fruition and be accomplished int he future.

We could take it back to our GAs, but we can say what our GAs would do.

We are just going for the endorsement. 

PROPOSAL: We are looking for the people in the midwest, to serve as a part of our committee of correspondence. You can participate in the national actions, you can choose two people on your team. As 2 points of contact and go to interoccupy.org and sign up for itin that way. I am on a working group with the NYCGA. OMW GA endorse that every occupation uses the interoccupy.org.

2 representatives, does it have to be 2? or what?

Pretty much how this is considered is that athere are 2 people per Ga as a point of contact for this. 

So you are asking us to consider the option? Back to your GA?

YES.

Anyone else???

Occupy OMW to endrose the transpacific trade agreement. Any trade agreeement that infringes internet or other IP issues.

Does this apply to pushing for the appeal of current trade agreements?

This is purely for the TPP that they are trying to push through and coming trade agreements.

Does this address the IP language.

In the access to medicines and internet freedom. These are the things primarily being attacked by the TPP?

I have a proposal that the OMW endorse the support of your local public schools.

Outreach working groups need to reach out to minority communties, we need to attack the electoral problem. Effectively a better means to organize the defense against legislation.

Does this include the NDAA?

Just a way to attack the legislation in an organized manner.

We need a website to figure out what everyone is doing.

Proposal on cashless currency economy and using the Permabank software.

SEND TO:

daskmartin@gmail.com
jkurtzjr@stlonline.com